{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red12\green12\blue12;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c5098\c5098\c5098;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28300\viewh17140\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Hands:\
Both players are dealt 6 cards to start each battle. Hands are kept secret from each other. The rest of the cards (the deck) are set aside and kept hidden from both players.\
Playing the Game:\
Air, Land, & Sea is played over a series of rounds called Battles. To win a battle, you must either: control more Theaters than your opponent after both players have played all of their cards; or convince your opponent to withdraw.\
If you win a battle, you earn Victory Points (VPs) represented by tokens. The first player to reach 12 VPs wins the game!\
Structure of a Battle:\
During a Battle, the players take turns playing one card at a time, trying to control more Theaters than their opponent.\
You don\'92t draw cards during a Battle, so be sure to plan carefully and make the most of the 6 cards you are dealt!\
\
Theaters:\
Each of the three Theater boards creates a \'93column\'94 between the players: one for Air, one for Land, and one for Sea. These columns are called Theaters. Cards are always played into these three Theaters. If a card is in a particular Theater\'92s column, we say that the card is \'93in that Theater.\'94\
\
Theaters that are next to each other are called \'93adjacent Theaters.\'94\
\
A player owns all of the cards on their side of the Theater boards. During your turn, you will play cards only on your side of the Theaters.\
\
Battle Cards:\
Cards are played to advance your war effort and how they are played will ultimately determine who wins the war (the game).\
\
Strength: Each card has a Strength value. If the total Strength of all the cards on your side of the Theater is higher than the total Strength of all the cards on your opponent\'92s side of that Theater, you \'93control\'94 that Theater.\
\
Tactical Abilities: Most cards have a Tactical Ability along with Strength, which takes effect as soon as the card is played \'93face up\'94 to a Theater. These abilities are either \'93Instant\'94 or \'93Ongoing.\'94\
\
Type:\
There are three types of cards: \'93Air,\'94 \'93Land,\'94 and \'93Sea\'94 cards, which relate to the three Theaters. Normally, you may only play a card \'93face up\'94 to its matching Theater: Air cards in the Air Theater, and so on.\
\
Facedown Cards: Cards can also be played \'93facedown\'94 as a \'93wild card\'94 in any Theater. Facedown cards always have a Strength of 2. \'93Facedown\'94 cards do not have any Tactical Abilities. You may see your own facedown cards at any time, but you may not see your opponent's \'93facedown\'94 cards.\
\
Covered Cards: When a card is played to a Theater that already contains cards, the newly played card is placed so that it overlaps the previously played card, while still showing the top portion of it. Any card overlapped by another is called a \'93covered card.\'94 Similarly, any card that is not overlapped by another card is referred to as \'93uncovered.\'94\
\
Resolving Battle:\
During a Battle, players take turns starting with the player who has the 1st Player Supreme Commander card.\
On your turn, you must take only one of these three actions: Deploy, Improvise, Withdraw.\
\
Deploy: Play one card from your hand, \'93face up.\'94 When you play a card, you must follow these deployment restrictions: You can only play cards on your side of the Theater boards. The card must be the same type as the Theater you play it to. If you have other cards in that Theater already, you must place the new card so that it covers (partially overlaps) those cards.\
Improvise: Play one card from your hand, "facedown," to any Theater. "Facedown" cards are treated as "wild cards" and can be played to any Theater regardless of which type they are.\
Withdraw: If you think your chances of winning the current Battle are low, you may withdraw. If you do, your opponent wins the Battle and gains VPs depending on how many cards are left in your hand. See the Supreme Commander cards for more specific information.\
\
Supreme Commander Cards: The 1st Player Supreme Commander wins tied Theaters and gains the following number of VPs based on the number of cards left in their opponent's hand if their opponent withdraws: 4+ cards = 2 VPs, 2-3 cards = 3 VPs, 1 card = 4 VPs, 0 cards = 6 VPs. The 2nd Player Supreme Commander loses tied Theaters and gains the following number of VPs based on the number of cards left in their opponent\'92s hand if their opponent withdraws: 5+ cards = 2 VPs, 3-4 cards = 3 VPs, 2 cards = 4 VPs, 0-1 cards = 6 VPs.\
\
Once you have finished your action, your opponent begins their turn. The players continue to alternate taking turns until one of them withdraws or both players have played all of their cards.\
\
Tactical Abilities:\
Most cards have Tactical Abilities described on the card. When you play a card face up from your hand, or if a facedown card is flipped over, its Tactical Ability takes effect immediately. There are two kinds of Tactical Abilities: "Instant" and "Ongoing," indicated on the card.\
\
You must carry out the effects of a Tactical Ability unless they contain the word "may."\
\
If a Tactical Ability is impossible to perform, that ability is ignored and has no effect.\
\
Instant Abilities: These take effect immediately after the card is played or if the card is revealed by being flipped face up. Once the Instant Ability is resolved, it has no further effect (unless somehow that card is played or revealed again).\
Note: Because instant abilities take effect when flipped face up, it is possible for multiple instant abilities to take effect around the same time. In these situations, always resolve the instant abilities in the order they happened and fully resolve each ability before moving on to the next.\
2nd Note: Once an instant ability begins taking effect, it always resolves fully, even if it gets flipped facedown before completing.\
\
Ongoing Abilities: These are always in effect as long as the card is face up. If a card with an Ongoing Ability is flipped "facedown," the ability no longer has any effect (unless that card is revealed again).\
Example: The Escalation Tactical Ability increases the Strength of all of your facedown cards to 4 as long as the Escalation card remains "face up." If that card were flipped over by another Tactical Ability, your "facedown" cards would go back to being Strength 2.\
\
Tactical Ability Key Terms:\
Flip: Many Tactical Abilities allow you to flip a card. Flipping a card means either turning it "face up" if it is "facedown" or turning a "facedown" card so it is "face up."\
Unless the ability states otherwise, you may flip any card \'97 yours or your opponent's.\
\
Uncovered/Covered: Many Tactical Abilities only affect uncovered or covered cards. If an ability does not specify uncovered or covered, such as Transport or Redeploy, assume the ability can affect any card.\
\
Play: Some Tactical Abilities instruct you to play a card, or only take effect in response to a card being played. The word "play" describes any time a player takes a card from their hand and places it in a Theater.\
\
Non-Matching Theaters: Means that a card is not in the Theater of its type. The card does not suffer any penalty for being in the "wrong" Theater.\
\
Destroy: Some Tactical Abilities instruct you to destroy a card. Destroyed cards are always placed facedown on the bottom of the deck. If a card is destroyed immediately after it is played, such as by Blockade, then that card does not get to use its Tactical Ability.\
\
Occupied: When counting the number of cards that occupy a Theater, always count both players' cards towards that total.\
\
Move: When a card is moved to a different Theater. It stays on the same side of the Theaters it was already on and remains owned by the same player. Moved cards are placed on top of any cards already in the Theater it was moved to. It covers those cards.\
\
Ending Battles: There are two ways a Battle can end: If a player withdraws, their opponent wins the Battle. Or if both players have played all of the cards in their hand. At this point, the player who controls the most Theaters wins the Battle.\
\
In order to control a Theater, you must have a higher total Strength there than your opponent has in that Theater. If your Strengths are tied, the 1st Player wins the tie and controls that Theater. If there are no cards on either side of the Theater, the 1st player controls that Theater.\
\
Scoring Victory Points:\
If neither player withdraws, the winner of the Battle scores 6 VPs. If one of the players withdraws, the other player scores VPs based on the number of cards left in the withdrawing player's hand (see the Supreme Commander Cards for details). After scoring VPs, check if the victor has enough VPs to win the game (12 VPs). If they don\'92t, fight another Battle.\
\
Setting up Battles:\
All cards are collected and shuffled together to create a new deck. Deal each player a new hand of 6 cards. Next, the Theater cards are rotated clockwise so that the rightmost Theater is moved to the far left of the Theater lineup. Lastly, players swap Supreme Commander cards. The player who was 1st in the last battle is now 2nd.}